+++
title = 'Personal Agility'
date = 2024-10-26T05:32:17-07:00
draft = true
+++
* agility is about ensuring eeryone can make the best use of their time. as employees learn and level up they are expected to drive agility across a wider group of people, growing their focus from personal to team to organization agility without abondoning the previous stages.
* personal agility: for new hires this is about ramping up on the team. for seasoned employees it is about learning how to manage their time and work through others.
* team agility: focuses on group coordination, keeping the team on the same page without blocking each other, documenting for future, reducing undifferentiated effort. a team's decision can also impact nearby team, thereby impacting orgs agility. hence teams must understand how a system works and is used.
* organizational agility: requires groups to scale their learnings and tooling across org and across the company, while minimizing the amount of effort required from each individual team.
## Key takeaways
* Be proactive, nothing gets done sitting around. No one knows what is in your head. its important to speak up and get everyone on the same page.
* Work incrementally will increase your agility. setup planning and introspection mechanisms to keep the team on track and get stuff done.
* Understand how and why decisions are made. Documenting how decisions  were made throughout the development lifecycle reduces the likelihood tha tothers make mistakes when working with your system.s
* Never stop growing your network. "Who you know" is one of the greatest resources. You don't always have to know the answers, just need to know who does. start by building a working relationship with your teammates and slowly expand it as you work with new teams. The smallest actions can expand your network from attending team events, to asking questions about a presentation, to walking to grab lunch with others.
## First Job
* Don't boil the ocean, learn as you go: when you are new there is a lot to learn, don't try to learn everything at once as it will overwhelm and stress you.
* Learn your development environment: thi sis your primary tool for getting things done and you should front-load learning about it. This exteds to tooling used by your team, ask for style guides, best practices wiki or setup instructions you should read.
* Start building relationships: meet those around you with introductory 1:1s. Sit down for 30 minutes with someone new atleast once a week, get them to tell you about their role, focus and state of their team or org. Ask them what worked for them when they were new hire or new to the team, what did not work, what resources to leverage. At the end of the meeting ask them names for 3 people to meet in future. when you start getting names of people you have already spoken to, then you should have a feeling of being ramped up on your space.
* Get to know your peers and leards as people: Eat lunch in kitchen, attend team events, say hi in hallways and ask people how they are doing, learn their interests and what is going on in their lives. when people leave, try to catch up from time to time.
* Be a real person too: share your interests with others, provide some detail when asked how your weekend was. opening up makes it easier for others to reciprocate.
* Consider a mentor or two: before finding know what you need help with instead of finding one because you were told to.
* Know when and how to ask questions: when stuck on an issue search for resoruces but don't beat your head for hours. reach out to teammates or onboarding buddy. if you have done some research, its better to ask than suffer in silence. but do make sure to summarize your research when asking questions.
* Pull in others to get unblocked: use existing mechanisms in the team like standup to seek others' help. Sometimes getting unblocked might require escalation. Given the independence afforted to each team, it makes sense that priorities don't always align. A more objective view might be necessary to get things moving.
* Feedback is an opportunity to learn: No matter how junior or senior you are, you are expected to get feedback. This isn't about judgement of your abilities, its about growing yourself and learning from others. No matter what the feedback, you are the owner of the document. Don't seek sign-off, seek feedback. Don't accept feedback blindly, understand the feedback and have a clear argument for why you should or shouldn't update your content as a result. It should not be because "X told me to"
* To grow yourself and others: when you review something you share responsibility with the author, so make sure you put in time to do a complete review. Feedback doesn't have to be about mistakes and bugs, it can icnlude questions to understand how a code functions or highlight what might be unclear to future engineers.
* To reflect on mistakes: our careers aren't defined by mistakes we didn't make, something that is impossible to measure but by how we handle mistakes we did.
* Review your work early and often: it ensures you are focused on the right hings and not wasting your time working on or investigating dead ends.
* keep your code changes small: a sigle page in the CR tool. it helps get feedback more quickly, less prone to reviewer fatigue, fewer merge/rebase conflicts. if working on larger change consider sending out a WIP CR.
* Review your own work first: a good habit is to review your own design and code before you share with others.self reviews catch mistakes from typo to logical errors. investing your time in reviewing your own work ensure you are not wasting time of reviewers and improves their impression of you.
* Don't fear operations: going oncall is one of the best ways to get into the details of the system and really understand it. Put your full oncall week to bettering the system. Observe system health through metrics and logs.
* Make things easier for next person: As a new team member you are in the best position to make sure others don't hit the same roadblocks you did and a good opportunity to show off your ownership skills. Create and update documentation as you go.
## Managing your time
* Learn to say no: as you gain seniority, many people will ask for your time. You have the best understanding to decide if you should invest time in something. Use that knowledge to say no to obligations you shouldn't take on.
* Block your time: More senior developers tend to have busier calendars. You still need developing regardless of your level. By blocking time for specific purpose, you get a better understanding of what you are trading off when a new meeting invite comes in.  Its also a good way to focus on your growth i.e. include wiki/broadcast links in meeting invite while blocking your calendar.
* Protect your time: blocking time alone isn't enough, you need to protech it as well. Do you need to be in that meeting? Evaluate if you really need to be part of the meetings.
## Leading others
* as you grow in seniority personal agility becomes less a function of how quickly you can get work done on your own, and more about how you free up your time an dmake others more agile.
* Understand what only you can do: the first step in leading in deciding who does what. as a senior you can do work more efficiently than juniors in the team but is that the right approach? others need to learn and grow as well. being a rock star that drags the rest of hte team behind them doesn't make you or the team successful. enabling everyone on the team to learn and grow will increase team's or org's agility. one example is when someone comes to you for questions, is there someone you have already taught about this topic that you can point htem to instead. As a senior its important to clearly define your role from start of the project to ensure team has the right expectations.
* Guide don't tell: instead of sharing a solution focus on developing a shared mental model/thought process. Share an outline of how you will approach the problem so they are able to apply it to the next problem. This take more time upfront but saves it in the long run. The same applies for code reviews as well. The point is to educate others on how to write better code. Focusing on general principles and guidance will have a longer lasting impact on code quality than any specific corrections.
* Speak to your audience: Always consider your audience while communicating. People come in with different background knowledge, are interested in different aspects of the problem, and will be swayed by different arguments. an approach for doc writing is to build up one core doc that covers a variety of audience and filter the doc down based on who you are speaking to.
* Provide solutions, not problems: an effective way to drive change is to highlight the solutions instead of problems. You can't change the past but you can always make incremental progress towards the future. Focusing on solutions is a great way to deliver results and earn trust with your leadership. They will know they can come to you for solutions and will look to you for new ideas when they need help in future. Common problems faced by team 1) we get so many tickets, are we actually fixing the root cause, can fixes be automated, is there an SOP to make it easy to resolve tickets 2) we spend too much time deploying and can't automate our pipeline, can you deploy less frequently to spend up freed-up time automating your pipeline, can we target to have each oncall write 1 integration test, can you automate minimum steps to free up time 3) we never get time to refactor or clean up tech debt, can you refactor as you are working on related code, have you outlined how much time is lost because of it and how much it will save, can we spend oncall time driving incremental refactoring it 4) people are not using our product, did you do the research in the planning phase on customer problems, if not update the planning process for future projects, if onboarding is too difficult can you reduce the amount of effort required for customers to get started, if customers face difficulty finding it can we make it more discoverable.
* Continue to build relationships: your network can provide an outside perspective, introduct you to new tools or launches, point you to a PoC in a space.
* Don't be a jerk: If no one is insterested in listening to you, it doesn't matter how right you are. Listen to what others are saying, even if they are wrong. Gently guide them to the error in thought process or provide information for them to make tradeoff decisions. There is no reward for speaking the most.
* Leverage your network: you don't need to be an expert in everything but know who to talk to about a wide range of topics.
* Keep meeting new people: expand your network outward from your team and upward from your level. Keep in touch and share learnings. Don't let contacts face, even if you touchbase once a year. There is a direct correlation between great leaders and the number of contacts a leader has outside the org.
* Provide constructive feedback: when reviewing someone's work consider the time and energy they have invested in it. Coach the author. Don't be a seagull - fly in, drop criticism and fly away. Others will remember you on how you treat them.

