+++
title = 'Ch03'
date = 2024-12-23T05:17:13-08:00
draft = true
+++
## Data Analysis Driven Organization
* This is in mature industries where the primary work involves human analysis of a variety of products and situations.
* The primary information hub is an EDW with scheduled batch ETL processes. ETL is done through ELT processes.
* SQL is the primary language used for data processing and presentation is done with BI reports and Dashbaords.
* This was common architecture in EDW world with ETLs primarily leveraging SQL.
* Analysts build report friendly datasets using SQL ELT processes.
* Data Engineering take up the task of extraction from source systems, loading and integrating new data sources, data governance and data quality processes.
* The number of data engineers will be small and analysts will be large.
* DE teams also configure real time data sources and make data available for query with low latency.
* This org uses SQL as a standard language for data processing and EDW as the primary data store.
* Analysts might use no code ML capabilities that are available out of the box but do not use advance ML workflows or custom models.
* ELT is better than ETL for this org as it allows flexibility and control over transformations + simple SQL language for data transformation.
## Data Engineering Driven Organization
* it is focussed on data integration.
* data transformation needs are complex
* DE transform and enrich data while building integration between analytical and operational systems
* parsining/transforming messy data coming from business units and external sources
* manage data lifecycle
* managing unstructured data as it does not follow schema like in DWH and requires cleanup like PII removal
* productionization of ML workloads to enable scientists to focus on science.
* real time analytics like anomaly detection/fraud detection.
* data engineer is responsible for ingesting data into the data architecture. it requires functional knowledge of data and software/data engineering knowledge
* they must also help with the deployment of artifacts produced by consumers like dashboards, ML models and other data infrastructure
* by taking up responsibility of parsing, ingesting and transforming messy data data engineers allow consumers to focus on creating value.
## Data Science Driven Organization
* organizations lean towards automated algorithms instead of relying on one off reports and analytics. They made decisions in an automated way. 
* platform must be adaptable for different users e.g. some scientists might want to use no code ML while others might be inclined to create their own models.
* standardization drives efficiency by making it easier to share code and technical artifacts, improves communication between teams.
* ML models often involve sensitive topics. It is important that the platform helps to make these workflows transparent, explainable and secure. collecting and monitoring metadata during all phases of hte ML workflow is essential to create a paper trail.

  
