+++
title = 'Ch04'
date = 2024-12-27T18:59:48-08:00
draft = true
+++
## Modernize data workflows
* data modernization should be considered holistically
* focus on the business workflows you are modernizing and identify the business outcomes those workflows drive. This is important to understand where the gaps and opportunities are.
* identify personas who will potentially gain from access to data. goal should be to democratize data access
* define technolgy that aligns with the business strategy and team capability
* when thinking about modernization the mind naturally graviates towards the pain you are currently experiencing. upgrading to easier to use/run/scalable/resilient tools is good but this might just provide incremental changes. you will not get transformational change from such upgrades.
* hence focus on workflows instead of technologies. What does it mean to modernize a data workflow? think about the overall tasks that end user want to do. Now think about how to implement it as cheaply and simply as possible.
* when modernizing the workflow think about
    * automated data ingest
    * streaming by default so SQL queries reflect latest data by default
    * automatic scaling
    * query rewrites instead of focusing on tuning queries. Let the optimizer take care of it.
    * retraining ML model in an automated fashion
    * continuous training - model drift is not the only time to retrain model but it should be done when you have a lot more data
* whenever you are building a data pipeline you are doing a precompuation. its an optimization, nothing more. Ask yourself if you really need it.
* Workload clusterization to help with prioritization
    * Priority 0 quick wins: high business value, low effort to migrate
    * Priority 1: high business value, high effort to migrate
    * Priority 2: low business value, low effort to migrate
    * Priority 3: low business value, high effort to migrate
