+++
title = 'Ch06'
date = 2024-12-31T03:09:19-08:00
draft = true
+++
* whenever you undertake a large tech project you should first ask yourself what business goals are you trying to accomplish, what are your current technology challenges and what technology trends do you want to leverage.
### Organizatinal Goals
* No silos: users in 1 part of org know/use data that users in other part of the org don't know or can't access
* Democratization: support domain experts and non technical users who can access data without going through technical intermediaries
* Discoverability: if they can't discover data they can't use it or they will end up deduplicating the effort
* Stewardship: datasets should be under the control of the team who understand what they are.
* Single source: data should be read in place, minimize copy and extracting of data
* Security and Compliance: ensure people with the right permissions can access data. also ensure data is compliant with all regulatory requirements.
* Ease of use: since there are 100s of consumers/analysts making reports should be easy.
* Data Science: these roles are expensive and difficult to hire. hence make data science teams more productive
* Agility: make insights available to decision makers faster
### Technological Challenges
* Size and Scale: quantity of data collected has dramatically incrased over time. current systems are unable to scale within speed and cost constraints
* Complex data and use cases: more unstructured data is being collected and analyzed. the current system for managing structured and unstructured data does not intersect. however there is a trend of using structured data with unstructured data.
* Integration: integration with new sources and sinks
* Real time: much of the new data is collected in real time and there is competitive advantage to being able to process data and make decisions on data as it arrives.
### Technology Trends and Tools
* Separation of Compute and Storage: allows different type of computes on the data like SQL, ML, Graph
* Multitenancy: a compute solution can host multiple tenants and a single tenant can access data from multiple sources
* Separation of Authentication and Authorization: IAM solutions ensure central IT teams manage identities and owners of data control access.
* Converging of data lakes and DWH: federated and external queries make it possible to run spark jobs on DWH and SQL queries on a data lake.
* Streaming Ingest: cloud providers now support capability to stream data into their analytic solutions, transforming data as it arrives.
### Hub and Spoke Architecture
* DWH acts has a hub, collecting all data required for analytics. Spokes are custom applications, dashboards, ML models that interact with DWH using standard interfacts.
* good approach for starting the analytics journey as its scalable, flexible and resilient
* it is scalable as DWH can easily intergrate with new data sources and use cases without having to reconfigure the entire system. it is flexible as it can be customized to meet the needs for the enterprise.
* there is only 1 unique copy in DWH. different workloads like BI, ML work on top of this data.
* because of support for views you can use SQL for transformations within the DWH (ELT).
* Modern DWH also support streaming/micro batch
### Organizational Structure
* there are more analysts that engieners. a hub and spoke model is ideal for this. it assumes analysts are capable of writing SQL queries and building dashboards.
* data engineering team responsibilities
    * landing raw data from variety of sources in DWH
    * ensuring data governance and protection of PII
    * common artifact repositories like data catalog, secret store, feature store etc
    * building the enterprise data model
* business unit responsible for
    * transforming data from enterprise data model into something that is usable from downstream analysis
    * populating the governance catalogs and artifact registries with business specific artifacts
    * reports, adhoc analysis, dashboards for decision making
* if different business  units in an org choose the same DWH technology then data sharing between them is easier. Whenever possible it is recommended to use the same DWH technology. however this is not possible with scenarios like mergers and acquisitions. it is better to migrate to single cloud DWH over time.
