+++
title = 'Sidetracked'
date = 2024-07-10T08:59:30-07:00
draft = true
+++

### Introduction
* Materialistic things like a fake watch can influence what we believe and feel. And how we feel and beleive is how we will act. We cannot think we do something in private and it won't reflect on our behavior in public. For example if we are dishonest in private we will behave like that in public and also have an opinion that others are dishonest instead of giving them benefit of doubt.
### Chapter 1: Better Than Mother Teressa
* We often ignore advice from others even when it will lead to better decisions.
* One possibility could be that it is difficult to assess whether advice is good or bad in the moment. After the fact is easy.
* A second possibility is that we find opinions of others less compelling and less convincing than our own, especially when we have invested time and effort in forming our opinions (sunken cost)
* We overestimate our abilities and have a positive view about ourselves. This is helpful in stressful situations, trauma or accidents, setbacks, help us persist in case of roadblocks. However this leads to problems in competitive decision making context. You are likely to make overly risky decisions, give our ideas more weight than others and ignore sound advice from others. 
* when we pay for an advice we are more likely to adopt it compared to when its available for free. It does not depend on the quality of the advice. This could possible be due to sunken cost.
* the business environment is complex as people seeking advice try to gauge the quality of the information they receive also based on how reliable the source has been in the past.
* Also business decisions are complex and there is good reason for complex issues the advice to have greater scrutiny.
* We overvalue advice when addressing difficult problem and undervalue it when the problem is easy. We do this because of simple tasks we believe we are better than others and on complex tasks we believe we are worse than others.
* When you think solution to a problem is smiple and find yourself waving off other people's advice, think again. You may know a lot about the issue, but that doesn't mean you won't benefit from opinions of others.
* When you are struggling with a challenging problem and receive advice that is at odds with your impulses, ask yourself if you are overvaluing the opinion. The other person might be no better informed than you.
* In summary whether we weigh information obtained from others into our final decisions depends on how confident we are in our own abilities and opinions, as well as whether subtle factors such as how much the advice costs or the complexity of the problem we are facing, make us question our knowledge and cmopetence. 
* The tendency towards positive self views and confidence in the information we know are hard to avoid. Raising your awareness about the sources of this common tendency can help you challenge assumptions behind your future decisions and take a more balance view of the information available to you.
* Reflect on your own past experience to recognize how your decisions were derailed by your biased perceptions of your competence.
* Eli Lilly and Company tried an approach to solve this. The decision to invest into a research was outsourced to experts who were neutrol to the project but had access to all data of test results generated by the team. They could provide a more neutral opinion when compared to the team who had more confidence in their abilitites to deliver what they had started.
